docs(contributing): Add "Make a Change Using a Local Clone" page (#1831)
spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io: community/contributing/docs/local-clone.md

---
layout: single
title: Make a Change Using a Local Clone
sidebar:
  nav: community
---

{% include toc %}

> If your changes are larger than a few lines or involve multiple files, you should fork the `spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io` repository and work from a local clone. Make sure you have [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) installed on your computer and have configured your GitHub account. See the [GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/en/github) for details.

Reviewer: "or if you're going to be making a lot of changes..." maybe?

Reviewer: Also:
s/should/can/

## Fork the Spinnaker documentation repository

1. Navigate to the `spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io` [repository](https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io/) with a web browser.
1. Click **Fork**.

## Create a local repository and set the upstream repository

1. In a terminal window, clone your fork:

   ```bash

>    git clone git@github.com/<github-username>/spinnaker.github.io.git

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   git clone git@github.com:<github-username>/spinnaker.github.io.git
```

   ```

1. Navigate to the new `spinnaker.github.io` directory. Set the `spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io` repository as the `upstream` remote:

   ```bash
   cd spinnaker.github.io

   git remote add upstream https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io.git
   ```

1. Confirm your `origin` and `upstream` repositories:

   ```bash
   git remote -v
   ```

   Output is similar to:

   ```bash
   origin	git@github.com:<github-username>/spinnaker.github.io.git (fetch)
   origin	git@github.com:<github-username>/spinnaker.github.io.git (push)
   upstream	https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io.git (fetch)
   upstream	https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io.git (push)
   ```

## Update your local repository

Make sure your local repository is current before you start making changes. Fetch commits from your fork's `origin/master` and `spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io`'s `upstream/master`:

   ```bash
   git fetch origin
   git fetch upstream
   ```

>    This workflow is different from a source code commit workflow . You do not need to rebase your local copy of `master` with `upstream/master` before pushing updates to your fork. In this documentation workflow, you create a working branch that tracks changes to `upstream/master` rather than `origin/master`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This workflow is different from a source code commit workflow. You don't need to rebase your local copy of `master` with `upstream/master` before pushing updates to your fork. In this documentation workflow, you create a working branch that tracks changes to `upstream/master` rather than `origin/master`.
```

>    This workflow is different from a source code commit workflow . You do not need to rebase your local copy of `master` with `upstream/master` before pushing updates to your fork. In this documentation workflow, you create a working branch that tracks changes to `upstream/master` rather than `origin/master`.

Reviewer: @plumpy for Git-practices review.

I'm not sure what this is referring to, but if we're assuming in this procedure that the reader isn't already familiar with forking/cloning and such, then the source code commit w/f you refer to might also be something they're not familiar with.

Author: Source code committers  usually rebase their local master against upstream and push the changes to their fork origin before creating each working branch... or at least that's how I contributed source code to projects using GitHub. 
I put this paragraph in here so engineers know contributing to docs has a different workflow, which is simpler than what engineers use.

Reviewer 2: I suspect anyone who has an existing GitHub workflow they're already familiar with is never going to read this page anyway. (Personally, I would just ignore this advice and use the same workflow I use everywhere else. It will work just as well and trying to remember to use a different workflow for this one repository just seems more confusing to me, not less.) So is it just adding confusion for this page's primary audience (people who are fairly new to git/GitHub)?

I dunno, just a thought.

Reviewer 3: I agree w/ @plumpy. If someone is already used to committing to GitHub, they won't be using this. Telling them this doesn't add anything.

Author: This is the docs workflow that k8s docs uses. Coming from development,  I asked WHY in docs I didn't have to rebase my fork before branching, and why use `git checkout -b <your-working-branch> upstream/master` instead of just `git checkout -b <your-working-branch>`.  The docs team there had no idea, so I had to track down somebody who did. Inquiring minds   want to know!

I added a sentence to the working branch section and removed from "Update your local repository".

Reviewer: I checked with a prominent (former) K8s contributor, and with Maggie, and I'm satisfied that this workflow is fine. Carry on.

## Create a working branch

1. Create a new working branch based on `upstream/master`:

   ```bash
   git checkout -b <your-working-branch> upstream/master

>    ```

Reviewer: Might be a good idea to warn here against accidentally invoking this command when a non-Master branch is already checked out.

Reviewer 3: +1😆 I've absentmindedly done this, and it's really annoying.

Author: I added "In your master branch" - do I need to add more? Truthfully, I've never created a working branch from another working branch. `git branch` is my friend!

Reviewer: `git branch` is your enemy, if you're already in a non-master branch. 🌵

Author: I reworked this section to emphasize being in `master`.

1.  Make your changes.

Use the `git status` command at any time to see what files you've changed.

## Preview your changes locally

It's a good idea to preview your changes locally before opening a pull request (PR). A preview lets you catch build errors or markdown formatting problems. The easiest way to deploy the documentation site is with a Docker container built using the included `Dockerfile`. Make sure you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) installed on your computer. Run the following commands from the `spinnaker.github.io` directory:

```bash
docker build --tag spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io-test .
docker run -it --rm --mount "type=bind,source=$(pwd),target=/code" \
    -p 4000:4000 spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io-test --incremental
```

Alternately, if you have [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) installed, you can generate the site by executing:

```bash
bundle exec jekyll serve --watch --incremental
```

Navigate to `http://localhost:4000` to see your changes.

## Commit your changes

> Commit your changes when you are ready to submit a pull request.

Reviewer: For small-change PRs, yes, but if you're doing substantial work, wouldn't you commit several-to-many times before you're ready to push?

Author: Some do, some don't. :)

Reviewer: I'm just concerned that (for someone new to Git) this implies you don't need to commit until you're ready to create the PR.

1. Check which files you need to commit:

   ```bash
   git status
   ```

   Output is similar to:

   ```bash

>    On branch local-clone

Reviewer: Using `local-clone` here as a branch name might confuse some people.

Author: thanks for catching that!

   Changes not staged for commit:
   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
   (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)

   modified:   _data/navigation.yml

   Untracked files:
   (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

   community/contributing/docs/local-clone.md

   no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
   ```

1. Add new files listed under **Untracked files** to the commit:

   ```bash

>    git add <your-file-name>

Reviewer: Maybe `git add <path/your-file-name>`?

   ```

   Repeat this for each new file.

1. Create a commit:

   ```bash
   git commit -a -m "<your-commit-subject>" -m "<your-commit-description>"
   ```

>    - `-a`: Commits all changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `-a`: Commits all staged changes.
```

>    - `-m`: Use the given `<msg>` as the commit message. If multiple `-m` options are given, their values are concatenated as separate paragraphs.

Reviewer: In the command above, the `-m`s are followed by `<your-commit-subject>` and `<your-commit-description>`, so "...the given `<msg>`" here might be confusing.

      ```
      docs(plugins): add documentation for plugin creators
      ```

      The Spinnaker repositories use a PR title checker, so your PR will fail if the title is not in the correct format. For more information, see [commit message conventions](/community/contributing/submitting/#commit-message-conventions).

   2. The **Leave a comment** field defaults to the commit description. Pull request descriptions are the first step to helping reviewers and project maintainers understand why your change was made. Do not leave this field blank. Provide as much description as possible. A good description helps get your PR merged faster!
   3. Leave the **Allow edits from maintainers** checkbox selected.

1. Click the **Create pull request** button.

Congratulations! You can view your submitted pull request on the **Pull requests** [tab](https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io/pulls).

>Do not delete your working branch until your pull request has been merged!

## Addressing feedback locally

Reviewers may ask you to make changes to your pull request. Read the feedback and make changes in your working branch.

> 

Reviewer: Do you want to suggest fetching/rebasing first, in case the repo's changed in the mean time?

Reviewer: Oh, now I see you mention it below. But it might be good to put it here (too). Besides reviewers suggesting changes on your branch, stuff might have gotten merged into master under other PRs in the meantime.

Author: I don't usually recommend rebasing unless the GitHub UI indicates a merge conflict. It's too easy to end up in rebase hell. I added a few lines to clarify messages contributors might see.
